---
title: "features"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

# Features

<div class='row display-flex'>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Free <i class='fa fa-usd'></i>
</div>
Open-source with an AGPL licence means free as in beer but also free as in freedom. You have the freedom to modify it, look how it works and even redistribute your changes!
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Secure <i class='fa fa-lock'></i></div>
Strong encryption, good practices and modern code offers the best security for your data.
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Responsive <i class='fa fa-mobile'></i> <i class='fa fa-tablet'></i> <i class='fa fa-desktop'></i></div>
You can access your lab book from any device, running any operating system, from anywhere in the world!
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Cross-platform <i class='fa fa-windows'></i> <i class='fa fa-apple'></i> <i class='fa fa-linux'></i></div>
Use your favorite operating system. You only need a recent browser.
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Timestamps <i class='fa fa-clock-o'></i></div>
RFC 3161 compliant timestamping of experiments (for intellectual property).
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Inventory management <i class='fa fa-database'></i></div>
Store reagents, protocols, plasmids, cell lines, mice or anything you want, you can customize everything!
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Stay master of your data <i class='fa fa-cloud-download'></i></div>
Import and export your data in common file formats (PDF, ZIP, CSV, JSON). Your data is not locked somewhere.
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Internationalization <i class='fa fa-globe'></i></div>
eLabFTW is translated in several languages because not everyone is confortable with english.
</div>

<div class='col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-4 col-lg-4'>
<div class='feature-title'>Scheduler <i class='fa fa-calendar'></i></div>
Use the integrated scheduler to book microscopes, rooms, machines or anything you wish to.
</div>

</div>


And also:

- eLabFTW can be installed at the institution/company level and host several teams, or you can have an instance just for your team, or just for you on your computer.
- upload any type of files, embed images in the text
- draw directly with your mouse
- draw molecules with Chemdoodle
- REST API for accessing programmatically your experiments
- can be used in a classroom
- SAML2 authentication if you have an identity provider
- works in Docker containers
- growing community of users and contributors scrutinizing the code and improving it
- customization: you can change the colors, the status list, the items types, etc. eLabFTW can fit any kind of lab (chemistry, biology, physics, astronomy, *etc.*)
- no cost at all, forever.

See [some gifs of eLab in action](http://imgur.com/gallery/V67U1)

You can find a [full list of features here](https://elabftw.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html).
